Social networks, which have almost become
part of our daily lives, have established new
communication structures and behaviors in
society.The Social Media and Social Networking
Minitrack highlights the increasing importance of
social media and networks in society.

The Minitrack includes two sessions with four
and three papers in each. The papers show the
latest findings on the use of social networking in
the context of government.

In our first session, one paper provides
professionals in citizen- and consumer-centered
domains as a means for external communication.
Two papers tackle the role of social media in disaster hazards. In a case
study, the authors use empirical data to explore
how government used Twitter to inform the
public about disasters.

In our second session, authors in one paper
synthesize emerging literature on social
commerce, social media as a means of connecting people, be it socializing or work related connectivity
both problems can be tackled and it depends on the user whether he/she will use this
technology or misuse it. However, 
creating online social networks raises privacy concerns of possible misuse.


Common important points:
1] User interface design plays a large role in determining the success of a social media
platform. The social media platforms that we frequent are well designed and easy to use.
As these large companies invest in quality UI design, it raises the bar for businesses
looking to enter the marketplace. Companies who stay on top of rapidly advancing user
interface design trends raise our expectations, as users, of how a social media app should
look and feel.

2] Three particular responses emerged from the study data, including the use of privacy
settings, self-surveillance, and pseudonymous accounts, most especially “Finstas” (fake
accounts)

3] Why some social platforms are popular among users and what can we do to achieve
the same. While all these platforms differ in terms of the content they share, they all serve
the common purpose of exchanging information with our peers.